PSU Layout Guidelines
The VIN pin must be bypassed to ground with a low-ESR ceramic bypass capacitor. Take care to minimize 
the loop area formed by the bypass capacitor connections, the VIN pin, and the anode of the catch diode. 
The typical recommended bypass capacitor is 10-μF ceramic with a X5R or X7R dielectric and the optimum 
placement is closest to the VIN pins and the source of the anode of the catch diode. Figure 8-16 shows a PCB 
layout example. The GND pin must be tied to the PCB ground plane at the pin of the device. The source of the 
low-side MOSFET must be connected directly to the top-side PCB ground area used to tie together the ground 
sides of the input and output capacitors as well as the anode of the catch diode. The PH pin must be routed to 
the cathode of the catch diode and to the output inductor. Because the PH connection is the switching node, the 
catch diode and output inductor must be located very close to the PH pins, and the area of the PCB conductor 
minimized to prevent excessive capacitive coupling. For operation at full rated load, the top-side ground area 
must provide adequate heat dissipating area. The TPS54331 device uses a fused lead frame so that the GND 
pin acts as a conductive path for heat dissipation from the die. Many applications have larger areas of internal or 
back-side ground plane available, and the top-side ground area can be connected to these areas using multiple 
vias under or adjacent to the device to help dissipate heat. The additional external components can be placed 
approximately as shown. Obtaining acceptable performance with alternate layout schemes can be possible, 
however this layout has been shown to produce good results and is intended as a guideline


RS485 Layout Guidelines
Robust and reliable bus node design often requires the use of external transient protection devices in order to 
protect against EFT and surge transients that may occur in industrial environments. Due to the wide frequency 
bandwidth (from approximately 3 MHz to 3 GHz) that the transients have, high-frequency layout techniques must 
be applied during PCB design.
• Place the protection circuitry close to the bus connector to prevent noise transients from entering the board.
• Use VCC and ground planes to provide low-inductance.
Note
High-frequency currents follow the path of least inductance and not the path of least impedance.
• Design the protection components into the direction of the signal path. Do not force the transients currents to 
divert from the signal path to reach the protection device.
• Apply 100-nF to 220-nF bypass capacitors as close as possible to the VCC pins of transceiver, UART, and 
controller ICs on the board.
• Use at least two vias for VCC and ground connections of bypass capacitors and protection devices to 
minimize effective via-inductance.
• Use 1-kΩ to 10-kΩ pullup or pulldown resistors for enable lines to limit noise currents in these lines during 
transient events.
• Insert series pulse-proof resistors into the A and B bus lines if the TVS clamping voltage is higher than the 
specified maximum voltage of the transceiver bus pins. These resistors limit the residual clamping current 
into the transceiver and prevent it from latching up.
• While pure TVS protection is sufficient for surge transients up to 1 kV, higher transients require metal-oxide 
varistors (MOVs) that reduce the transients to a few hundred volts of clamping voltage, and transient blocking 
units (TBUs) that limit transient current to 200 mA